docs(api): Heater-Shaker in Python API docs (#10686)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/new_modules.rst

Hardware Modules
################

> Hardware modules are first-party peripherals that attach to the OT-2 to extend its capabilities. The Python API currently supports four modules that attach to the OT-2 deck and are controlled over a USB connection: the :ref:`Temperature <temperature-module>`, :ref:`Magnetic <magnetic-module>`, :ref:`Thermocycler <thermocycler-module>`, and :ref:`Heater-Shaker <heater-shaker-module>` Modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hardware modules are first-party peripherals that attach to the OT-2 extending its capabilities. The Python API currently supports four modules that attach to the OT-2 and are controlled over a USB connection: the :ref:`Temperature <temperature-module>`, :ref:`Magnetic <magnetic-module>`, :ref:`Thermocycler <thermocycler-module>`, and :ref:`Heater-Shaker <heater-shaker-module>` modules.
```

Available Modules
-----------------

The first parameter to :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.load_module`, the module's *load name*, specifies the kind of module to load. The table below lists the load names for each kind of module.

> Some modules were added to the Protocol API later than others, and some modules have multiple hardware generations (GEN2 modules have a "GEN2" label on the device). Make sure your protocol's metadata specifies a :ref:`Protocol API version <v2-versioning>` high enough to support all the modules you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some modules were added to the Protocol API later than others and some modules have multiple hardware generations (GEN2 modules have a "GEN2" label on the device). Make sure your protocol's metadata specifies a :ref:`Protocol API version <v2-versioning>` high enough to support all the modules you want to use.
```

.. versionadded:: 2.0

Changes with the GEN2 Temperature Module
========================================

> The GEN2 Temperature Module has a plastic insulating rim around the plate, and plastic insulating shrouds designed to fit over our aluminum blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GEN2 Temperature Module has a plastic insulating rim around the plate and plastic insulating shrouds designed to fit over our aluminum blocks.
```

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _heater-shaker-module:

****************************
Using a Heater-Shaker Module
****************************

The Heater-Shaker Module provides on-deck heating and orbital shaking. The module can heat from 37 to 95 °C, and can shake samples from 200 to 3000 rpm.

The Heater-Shaker Module is represented in code by a :py:class:`.HeaterShakerContext` object. The examples in this section will use a Heater-Shaker loaded in slot 1:

.. code-block:: python

    from opentrons import protocol_api

    metadata = {'apiLevel': '2.13'}

    def run(protocol: protocol_api.ProtocolContext):
         hs_mod = protocol.load_module('heaterShakerModuleV1', 1)

.. versionadded:: 2.13

Placement Restrictions
======================

> To allow for proper anchoring and cable routing, the Heater-Shaker should only be loaded in slot 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, or 10. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow for proper anchoring and cable routing, the Heater-Shaker may only be loaded in slot 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, or 10. 
```

Author: A fine distinction, but you can absolutely load a H-S in 2, 5, or 8 as currently implemented in the API. (But you shouldn't!)

> To allow for proper anchoring and cable routing, the Heater-Shaker should only be loaded in slot 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, or 10. 

Reviewer 2: As outlined in the [handover doc](https://opentrons.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RPDO/pages/3214770234/H-S+Product+Support+Handover+Doc#Protocol-Designer%3A.1), "Slot 3 and 6 are permitted, but to lock the rear deck slot clamp you need to use the L key (instead of the longer torx driver)". The API reference should mention this detail. As well, there will be a Support article for installing and setting up the heater-shaker, which will mention and demonstrate this process that this API reference can hyperlink.

Author: The attachment process is important, but outside the domain of the API docs. Hardware docs and in-app text cover this, in addition to the support article.

In general, it's best to leave all slots adjacent to the Heater-Shaker empty, in both directions. If your protocol requires filling those slots, you’ll need to observe certain restrictions put in place to avoid physical crashes involving the Heater-Shaker.

First, you can’t place any other modules adjacent to the Heater-Shaker in any direction. This prevents collisions both while shaking and while opening the labware latch. Attempting to load a module next to the Heater-Shaker will raise a ``DeckConflictError``.

> Next, you can’t place tall labware (defined as >53 mm) to the left or right of the Heater-Shaker. This prevents the Heater-Shaker’s latch from colliding with the adjacent labware. Attempting to load tall labware to the right or left of the Heater-Shaker will also raise a ``DeckConflictError``. Common labware that exceed the height limit include tube racks and Opentrons 1000 µL Tip Racks.

Reviewer 2: Change it to be "Common labware found in the Opentrons Labware Library" or just "Common Opentrons labware". Want to make sure people know this is referring to Opentrons products.

Author: Good point about these examples being Opentrons products. They're in LL, but any labware (including custom) can run afoul of this restriction.

> Finally, if you are using an 8-channel pipette, you can't perform pipetting actions in `any` adjacent slots. Attempting to do so will raise a ``PipetteMovementRestrictedByHeaterShakerError``. This prevents the pipette ejector from crashing on the module housing or labware latch. The one exception is that to the front or back of the Heater-Shaker, an 8-channel pipette can access tip racks only. Attempting to pipette to non-tip-rack labware will also raise a ``PipetteMovementRestrictedByHeaterShakerError``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, if you are using an 8-channel pipette, you can't perform pipetting actions in `any` adjacent slots. Attempting to do so will raise a ``PipetteMovementRestrictedByHeaterShakerError``. This prevents the pipette ejector from crashing on the module housing or labware latch. There is one exception. To the front or back of the Heater-Shaker, an 8-channel pipette can access tip racks. Attempting to pipette to non-tip-rack labware will also raise a ``PipetteMovementRestrictedByHeaterShakerError``.
```

Latch Control
=============

To easily add and remove labware from the Heater-Shaker, you can control its labware latch within your protocol using :py:meth:`.open_labware_latch` and :py:meth:`.close_labware_latch`. Shaking requires the labware latch to be closed, so you may want to issue a close command before the first shake command in your protocol:

.. code-block:: python

    hs_mod.close_labware_latch()
    hs_mod.set_and_wait_for_shake_speed(500)

If the labware latch is already closed, ``close_labware_latch()`` will succeed immediately; you don’t have to check the status of the latch before opening or closing it.

> For preparing the deck before running a protocol, use the labware latch controls in the Opentrons App or run these methods in Jupyter notebook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prepare the deck before running a protocol, use the labware latch controls in the Opentrons App or run these methods in Jupyter notebook.
```

> For preparing the deck before running a protocol, use the labware latch controls in the Opentrons App or run these methods in Jupyter notebook.

Reviewer 2: Will capture this in detail/step-by-step in Support article.

| PCR Adapter             | NEST 96 Well Plate 100 µL PCR Full Skirt  | ``opentrons_96_pcr_adapter_nest_wellplate_100ul_pcr_full_skirt``     |
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| PCR Adapter             | Thermo Scientific Armadillo PCR Plate     | ``opentrons_96_pcr_adapter_armadillo_wellplate_200ul``               |
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Universal Flat Adapter  | Corning 384 Well Plate 112 µL Flat        | ``opentrons_universal_flat_adapter_corning_384_wellplate_112ul_flat``|
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Custom flat-bottom labware can be used with the Universal Flat Adapter. If you need assistance creating custom labware definitions for the Heater-Shaker, `submit a request <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Requesting-a-custom-labware-definition>`_.

Heating and Shaking
===================

> Heating and shaking operations are controlled independently, and are treated differently due to the amount of time they take. Speeding up or slowing down the shaker takes at most a few seconds, so it is treated as a *blocking* command — all other command execution must wait until it is complete. In contrast, heating the module or letting it passively cool can take much longer, so the Python API gives you the flexibility to perform other pipetting actions while waiting to reach a target temperature. When holding at a target, you can design your protocol to run in a blocking or non-blocking manner.

Reviewer: There are a few `,` before an `and` I have noticed.
I have called them out but am wondering with the consistency here if this is a preferred style?

Author: My general guidelines:
- Comma before "and" when conjoining full clauses
- No comma before and when conjoining smaller units (verb phrases, noun phrases, etc.)
- No rule is perfect, so default to prosody (how you would say it out loud) and put a comma at a natural pause

I think the most natural resolution here is to add "they" in the second conjunct and leave the comma.

> Heating and shaking operations are controlled independently, and are treated differently due to the amount of time they take. Speeding up or slowing down the shaker takes at most a few seconds, so it is treated as a *blocking* command — all other command execution must wait until it is complete. In contrast, heating the module or letting it passively cool can take much longer, so the Python API gives you the flexibility to perform other pipetting actions while waiting to reach a target temperature. When holding at a target, you can design your protocol to run in a blocking or non-blocking manner.

Reviewer 2: Is the "perform other pipetting actions while waiting to reach a target temperature" true/confirmed for H-S?

Pipetting while modules perform other actions has been frequently requested for the other modules, so we should be explicit here and say something along the lines of "at this time, pipetting while the module completes a step is only possible with the heater-shaker module and not the other Opentrons hardware modules available".

Blocking commands
-----------------

> Here is an example of how to shake a sample for one minute in a blocking manner — no other commands will execute until the minute has elapsed. This can be done with three commands, which start the shake, wait the minute, and stop the shake:

Reviewer: This comma before the and is expected 😊

Non-blocking commands
---------------------

To pipette while the Heater-Shaker is heating, use :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.set_target_temperature` and :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.wait_for_temperature` instead of :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.set_and_wait_for_temperature`:

.. code-block:: python

    hs_mod.set_target_temperature(75)
    pipette.pick_up_tip()   
    pipette.aspirate(50, plate['A1'])
    pipette.dispense(50, plate['B1'])
    pipette.drop_tip()
    hs_mod.wait_for_temperature()
    protocol.delay(minutes=1)
    hs_mod.deactivate_heater()

This example would likely take just as long as the blocking version above; it’s unlikely that one aspirate and one dispense action would take longer than the time for the module to heat. However, be careful when putting a lot of commands between a ``set_target_temperature()`` call and a ``delay()`` call. In this situation, you’re relying on ``wait_for_temperature()`` to resume execution of commands once heating is complete. But if the temperature has already been reached, the delay will begin later than expected and the Heater-Shaker will hold at its target temperature longer than intended.

> Additionally, if you want to pipette while the module is holding at a speed and/or temperature, you need to parallelize the commands yourself. One of the simplest ways to do this is with Python’s ``time`` library. First, add ``import time`` at the start of your protocol. Then use :py:func:`time.time` to set a reference time when the target is reached, and a ``while`` loop to check if the desired amount of time has elapsed:

Reviewer 3: > Additionally, if you want to pipette while the module is holding at a speed and/or temperature, you need to parallelize the commands yourself.

I think this is an overstatement.

Take this code:

```python
hs_mod.set_and_wait_for_shake_speed(1000)
hs_mod.set_and_wait_for_target_temperature(75)
pipette.transfer(100, some_other_well_plate["A1"], some_other_well_plate["A2"])
```

This is "pipetting while the module is holding at a speed and/or temperature," but we don't need to do anything special to manually parallelize here.

It looks like what you're going to trouble to implement here *isn't*:

> Pipetting while the module is holding at a speed and/or temperature.

It's:

> Hold the speed and/or temperature for 1 minute, or as long as it takes to finish pipetting, whichever takes longer.

Author: You're right, this needs a qualifier. I'm thinking: `Additionally, if you want to pipette while the module holds at a target for a certain length of time, you need to track the holding time yourself.` and then adopt your non-polling code from the below comment.

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: Great example and detail! Wanted to check that we have tested these solutions out before, right? Plan to do some tests myself as well.

Author: @sanni-t has tested these approaches.

>     hs_mod.set_and_wait_for_target_temperature(75)
>     start_time = time.time()  # set reference time
>     pipette.pick_up_tip()   
>     pipette.aspirate(50, plate['A1'])
>     pipette.dispense(50, plate['B1'])
>     pipette.drop_tip()
>     if not protocol.is_simulating()
>         # check if 60 seconds have elapsed since reference time
>         while time.time() - start_time < 60
>             time.sleep(1)
>     hs_mod.deactivate_heater()

Reviewer 3: A few things about this.

First, it's usually subtly wrong to do arithmetic on `time.time()`. People should use `time.monotonic()` instead.

Second, I don't think this needs `protocol.is_simulating()`, nor a `time.sleep()` busy-loop.

```suggestion
    hs_mod.set_and_wait_for_target_temperature(75)
    start_time = time.monotonic()  # set reference time
    pipette.pick_up_tip()   
    pipette.aspirate(50, plate['A1'])
    pipette.dispense(50, plate['B1'])
    pipette.drop_tip()
    protocol.delay(max(0, start_time+60 - time.monotonic()))
    hs_mod.deactivate_heater()
```

The advantage to `protocol.delay()` over `time.sleep()` is that it can be interrupted immediately by the "Cancel protocol" button in the Opentrons App.

A "disadvantage" is that it will cause the true run log to diverge from the predicted run log, because the duration will be different. I put "disadvantage" in quotes because this is, in a sense, intended behavior; the protocol really is doing something different.

Author: Taking this suggestion! It has a wrong method name in it (my fault) and I'll add back a comment explaining the `delay` line. And the surrounding text will have to change considerably, but all for the better.

Deactivating
============

As with setting targets, deactivating the heater and shaker are done separately, with :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.deactivate_heater` and :py:meth:`~.HeaterShakerContext.deactivate_shaker` respectively. There is no method to deactivate both simultaneously, so call the two methods in sequence if you need to stop both heating and shaking.

.. note:: 

    The OT-2 will not automatically deactivate the Heater-Shaker at the end of a protocol. If you need to deactivate the module after a protocol is completed or canceled, use the Heater-Shaker module controls on the device detail page in the Opentrons App or run these methods in Jupyter notebook.

> 

Reviewer: 3 new lines?

Author: 🤷 a gap of 2 is probably fine. I find nothing extra before section headings (especially ones with anchors that precede them) to make it very hard to navigate the source.
